# One Day Build - Prep Guide

This document is created as a guide to prepare you for your **One Day Website Build** process. Content refers to all of the words, PDF downloads and images on your website. We do our best work when you have provided us complete content prior to your **One Day Website Build** day so we can do what we do best, build you an outstanding website in just 1 day.

**If you find yourself getting bogged down, we are always an email/phone call away to assist and answer any questions.** 

### Overview of Requirements: 

1. **Login Access to Necessary Web Accounts (if you are hosting your website elsewhere)**
2. **Branding Information & Style Preferences** 
3.  **Social Media Links & Logins**
4.  **Page (s) Information – Both copy and images**
5. **Blog Post (s) Information – Both copy and images**
6. **Opt-In / Contact Form Preferences**

When you are have completed this form and compiled your content, request a folder Structure from us and you can upload your clearly labeled content there for us prior to your **One Day Website Build** day.



### Before we start share your vision with us …

If you could choose 3 words to describe your perfect website, what would they be? Alternatively, share examples with us of websites you like.

1. 
2.  
3.  

What do you want your website visitors to feel when they visit your site?

1.  
2.  
3.  

**Tell us what the main objective of your website is?** E.g. to gather leads via a form, to answer customer’s questions, for customers to download your latest brochure, for suppliers to be able to find product information, for customers to be able to buy products/signup for services?

**Tell us who your ideal client is? Who are you hoping to attract with your website?** E.g. are you targeting businesses or individuals? Think about where they are geographically; are they in a specific industry or position? Are they male or female? How old are they?



### #1 Login & Account Requirements

- If you have an existing Wordpress Website that we need to access content from, we need the following (you can get this information from your existing website host / website developer):
- FTP Logins For File Access cPanel/phpMyAdmin Logins for Database Access
- Email Marketing / List Management Logins:
- We’ll need access to the logins for your email marketing / list management / bulk email system to integrate it with your website, e.g. MailChimp
- Please give us your Google logins for your Google Analytics account if you have one.
- Other - Please specify any other accounts we would need here.

### #2 Branding Requirements

- **Logo** - This needs to be provided in good quality (e.g. more than 500KB). If you don’t have a logo, leave this section blank and we will create a text logo for you.
- **Colors** - Please let us know what colors we need to use on your website (RGB, Hexadecimal preferably or if this makes no sense to you send us an image with a color scheme you like or some other branding you have done with your colors.)
- **Tagline** - If you have one, let us have it.
- **Quotes / Keywords** - If you have any particular quotes or words you want us to use please let us know here.

### #3 Social Media Links & Logins

- **Accounts** - Please list all your social media accounts here, e.g. Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Pinterest, YouTube, Snap Chat, etc.
- **Logins** - In order to display social feeds on your site we would need logins for certain of your accounts, e.g. Twitter, Instagram.



### #4 Page (s) Information

#### #4.1 Home Page

- **Image Sliders/ banner Images/ Headers** - Please provide minimum of  5 good quality images for this purpose and provide the info below 
  - **Image** - e.g Image of business hands shaking
  - **Words** - e.g We are here to broker your deal
  - **Button** - e.g Contact Us

- **Features** - What yo are/ your company is known for?
  - **Feature** - e.g Integrity 
  - **Description** - e.g At XYZ Construction, we pride ourselves on our high level of integrity.
  - **Button** - e.g About Us
- **Testimonials** - What your clients think of you
  - **Customer** - e.g Joe Blogs - XYZ Construction 
  - **Quote** - e.g Dealing with your company has been an absolute pleasure …
  - **Image** -  Indicate whether customer image required & provided. Yes/No
- **Client List** - Who you have done work for (Minimum 5 clients)
  - **Company Name** - e.g XYZ Construction 
  - **Website** - e.g xyzconstruction.co.zw
  - **Logo Provided** - Yes/No

- **Page Copy/ Content** - The words you want to appear on your home page. This should be focused on what makes your company unique, and why people should choose to use your company over any other company/person offering the same products/service

- **Notes/ Special Requests for Home Page** - If you want to give us any special requirement you can do so here. 

#### #4.2 Contact Page

- Please provide us with all the contact information  you want shared on your website. Only Complete that information you want to be published. 
  - Telephone/s
  - Fax/s
  - Email/s
  - Street Address 
  - Postal Address
  - Skype
  - Google Map? Give us GPS co-ordinates

- **Contact Form that clients will complete**  - What information do you need from potential customers on your website e.g. First Name, Last Name, Email, Telephone, Message
- **Page Copy/ Content** - The words you want to appear on your contact page
- **Notes/ Special Requests for Contact Page** - If you want to give us any special requirement you can do so here. 

#### #4.3 About Page

Below are some examples of the kind of info we can feature on your About Page should you wish to have an About Page.

- **Meet The Team** - Details of any staff required on the website.

  - **Name** - e.g Joe Blogs
  - **Position** - e.g Director 
  - **Description** - e.g Joe is the head of our department and instrumental in blabla. OR List qualifications / skills. 
  - **Contacts** - Any contact info you want displayed for the staff member. E.g. Email, Phone, Social Media.
  - **Photo** - Yes/No

- **Page Copy / Content** - Tell us about your company/services here

  XYZ Construction … Some ideas of the information you can enter here … Established/Founded when? By who? Why? Awards? Growth? Areas of operation? Touch on services on offer. Vision, Mission, Aims, Solutions. This page establishes your credibility.

- **Notes/ Special Requests for About Page** - If you want to give us any special requirement you can do so here

#### #4.4  Services Page

- **Services/ Offerings** - What is it that you do?
  - **Service** - e.g Book Keeping 
  - **About** - e.g We offer a full bookkeeping service for small to medium sized companies. Etc….
  - **Image Provided** - Yes/No
- **Page Copy/ Content** - The words you want to appear on your services page.
- **Notes/ Special Requests for About Page** - If you want to give us any special requirement you can do so here

#### #4.5   Page Title – let us know the name of the page you need

- **Page Copy/ Content** - The Words you want to appear on your page. 
- **Notes/ Special Requests for About Page** - If you want to give us any special requirement you can do so here



### #5 Blog Post (s) Information 

Please provide content & images in the following format.

- **Article Title** 
- **Date of Article**
- **Featured Image**
- **Caregory/ies** - you can create categories to organize your blog posts if you want.
- **Tag/s** - you can create Tags (think of these as Keywords) that your readers can search on.
- **Content** - Full article content to go here … Include details of any additional images, etc. here as well.

### #6 Opt-In / Contact Form Preferences

Please include the copy you’d like to use for your opt-in forms on your site and if you have a preference on where you’d like the opt-in displayed. If you're not sure on some of the details from above, we'll set it up with our recommendations.

### #7 Opt-In / Contact Form Preferences 

#### You are done!! Well almost done ... 

**Important! These are the next steps:** 

- Save this document on your computer and then upload to Wetransfer.
- Finish uploading any required files, images and documents to your folder
- If you want us to check or review your content for you, drop us an email at hello@wehost.co.zw and we will revert.
- Book your **One Day Website build** day on our website and pay your deposit – visit wehost.africa 



Once we receive your booking and review your content, we will revert with any questions prior to your build day. We will also send you some websites to give you an idea of the sort of site we’d like to create for you so we can decide the general look and feel together before the big build. On build day, we will setup a Slack Channel to communicate through easily and send you relevant links to check during the day**. PLEASE MAKE SURE THAT YOU BOOK OFF THAT DAY IN YOUR CALENDER SO THAT YOU ARE AVAILABLE TO COMMUNICATE WITH US!** By the end of the day, you will have your website built and working for you!